# EnigmaMachine
In 1944, During the world war (II) Germans employed the Enigma machine which can encrypt messages. The machine gives millions of ways to encode a message so it makes it harder to the opponents to crack the encoded message and let Germans communicate securely. the machine includes electro-mechanical rotors contains 26 letter alphabets so a person can enter any letter on enigma's keyboard, for example letter A, then the encrypted letter will appear on the lamp board as K. As the machine change plaintext to ciphertext it can also do the opposite by deciphering to plaintext on the same configuration that have ciphered with on the plugboard.
The rotor-based cipher machine which is enigma machine is consist of 4 main components; keyboard that takes the user input from plaintext to encrypt it to ciphertext or ciphertext to decrypt it to plaintext as enigma machine can be used for both encryption and decryption. the keyboard only contains 26 letters to avoid spaces which can increase the risk of estimating the encrypted message.
The first stage of encryption starts at the plugboard. The keyboard is connected directly with the plugboard so each letter is connected to a different letter. For example, the letter D is connected with letter W so when the user type D it will change to letter W before it goes to the rotors and vice versa.
The machine includes 5 rotors, each rotor contains 26 contacts from (A-Z). the encoding is done on 3 (Fast, Medium and Slow) rotors in order from right to left. After hitting the first key on the keyboard the right rotor (fast) changes its position by 1 letter, after 26 turns in the right rotor the middle rotor turns 1 unit, which means that settings changes regularly and each letter in the message is different from the other. for example, if we entered a string of letters (AAAA) every letter will be encrypted differently according to the shifting process and ring settings. Ring setting is a constant setting taken by the user to command the machine how many letters should be shifted.
After the letter pass through the 3 rotors from right to left, it goes to the reflector. The reflector revers the cycle to the 3 rotors starting from left to right rotor then pass to the plugboard as a final stage of substitution cipher.
The final output is shown on the lamp board as it is the final stage of encryption. 
